OK so now you have heard a couple of explanations
of how InnerSource works.
Let's talk about the underlying principles.
First of all where does it come from?
Well, most of this stuff is taken straight from The Apache Way.
The Apache Software Foundation
has been producing high quality
open source projects for more than 20 years.
And they've done a good job of learning how to explain to people
that have never done open source before
how to get that effect.
So we've borrowed liberally from what they've learned in the last 20 years,
and, grafted that into this InnerSource idea.
So let's start with the concept of mentorship.
Mentorship is key to making InnerSource work.
The idea that all boats are going to rise
if the code gets better,
if everybody does a little bit better.
The generosity of sharing what you know,
instead of holding what you know as a way to keep your job.
What if you're known for being a great teacher?
What if you're known for helping people get the best out of themselves?
That's what mentorship is.
Trusted Committer-ship in Apache is actually an honor.
If you get to be a Trusted Committer,
it means that you're not just good enough to contribute code,
you're good enough to watch
and make sure that the contributions of others
are good enough and maintainable.
But, also you're good at explaining to other contributors
how to get the most out of their contributions.
And, sometimes in a traditional company this idea can be difficult.
Especially if people are used to being reviewed based on how well they code,
rather than how well they teach others to code.
But we find that after people get the swing of this
it really helps, both with,
sort of, collegial camaraderie and collaboration across the company.
But also, the Trusted Committers start feeling better
about the work that they're doing.
We recommend that people not be Trusted Committers
all the time every day.
Because it's important to continue to learn how to code
and stay connected to coding
so that you are an effective Trusted Committer.
And actually, in open source those things are always interleaved.
But in InnerSource we really recommend
as an implementation that
you go ahead and put 10% of your resource into Trusted Committer-ship
in any given sprint.
And, if they have time left over
after they've looked at the InnerSource contributions that have come in,
they should be reviewing all the contributions.
That means the ones from your own team.
Because that automatically boots the quality.
Anytime a second pair of eyes looks at code it's going to get better.
And then,
it's important for you to know that mentorship has to be
prioritized or it isn't going to happen.
Most companies think that code review is happening.
But in reality, because of the pressures of time,
there's a tendency to rubber-stamp within a team.
Because, people say, "Oh, you know I'm good at this."
"Can you just rubber-stamp this, right?"
"We have to hurry. We have to get done quickly."
But if the code is coming from the outside
and the team is going to have to accept it and actually maintain it,
they're much more careful about that quality.
And open source shows this.
The amount of
quality that's found and improved continuously,
the speed with which any problem that's found is remediated
is, you know, pretty obvious in open source.
And then, it's important to think
about all of this participation as voluntary.
So, nobody's being conscripted here.
It should never feel like you're being told you have to do this.
It's more about greasing the wheels,
so that the original engineer can get what they need done
in a way that is least interruptive
to the engineers working on that silo.
And, that actually comes out with a great, high quality
opportunity for that original engineer to get his work done.
So, it's good all around when it's done right.
And it's not hard to get to that place.
You just have to prioritize mentorship
and make sure those Trusted Committers
understand the importance
and the gravity of the work that they're doing.